General Electric Company operates as a digital industrial company worldwide. The company serves customers in approximately 180 countries.

Segments

The company operates in Power, Renewable Energy, Oil & Gas, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, and Energy Connections & Lighting.

Power

This segment serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide with products and services related to energy production and water reuse. Its products and technologies harness resources, such as oil, gas, coal, diesel, nuclear and water to produce electric power and include gas and steam turbines, full balance of plant, upgrade and service solutions, as well as data-leveraging software.

Gas Power Systems – The company offers a spectrum of heavy-duty and aeroderivative gas turbines for utilities, independent power producers and various industrial applications, ranging from small, mobile power to utility scale power plants.

Steam Power Systems – The company offers steam power technology for coal and nuclear applications, including boilers, generators, steam turbines, and Air Quality Control Systems to help produce power and provide performance over the life of a power plant.

Power Services – The company delivers maintenance, service and upgrade solutions across total plant assets and over their operational lifecycle, leveraging the Industrial Internet to improve the performance of such solutions.

Distributed Power – The company provides technology-based products and services to generate power at or near the point of use. The product portfolio features fuel flexible industrial gas engines, including Jenbacher and Waukesha engines, which generate power for various industries worldwide.

Water & Process Technologies – The company provides chemical and equipment solutions and services to help manage and optimize water resources across various industries and municipalities, including water treatment, wastewater treatment and process system solutions.

GE Hitachi Nuclear – The company offers advanced reactor technologies solutions, including reactors, fuels and support services for boiling water reactors, and is offered through joint ventures with Hitachi and Toshiba, for safety, reliability and performance for nuclear fleets.

Renewable Energy

This segment makes renewable power sources affordable and accessible for the benefit of people. Renewable Energy creates value for customers with solutions from onshore and offshore wind, hydro, and emerging low carbon technologies. It has operations in approximately 40 countries worldwide.

Onshore Wind – The company provides technology and services for the onshore wind power industry by providing wind turbine platforms and hardware and software to optimize wind resources. Wind services help customers improve availability and value of their assets over the lifetime of the fleet. Digital Wind Farm is a site level solution, creating a dynamic, connected and adaptable ecosystem that improves its customers' fleet operations.

Offshore Wind – The company offers its high-yield offshore wind turbine, Haliade 150-6MW, which is compatible with bottom fixed and floating foundations. It uses the torque design and the advanced high density direct-drive permanent magnet generator. Wind services support customers over the lifetime of their fleet.

Hydro – The company provides a range of solutions, products and services to serve the hydropower industry from initial design to final commissioning, from low head/medium/high head hydropower plants to pumped storage hydropower plants, small hydropower plants, concentrated solar power plants, geothermal power plants and biomass power plants.

Oil & Gas

This segment serves all segments of the oil and gas industry, from drilling, completion, production and oil field operations, to transportation through liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipelines. In addition, this segment provides industrial power generation and compression solutions to the refining and petrochemicals segments. It also delivers pipeline integrity solutions and a range of sensing, inspection and monitoring technologies.

Turbomachinery Solutions – The company provides equipment and related services for mechanical-drive, compression and power-generation applications across the oil and gas industry. Its portfolio includes drivers (aero-derivative gas turbines, heavy-duty gas turbines and synchronous and induction electric motors), compressors (centrifugal and axial, direct drive high speed, integrated, subsea compressors and turbo expanders), and turn-key solutions (industrial modules and waste heat recovery).

Subsea Systems and Drilling – The company provides a portfolio of subsea products and services required to facilitate the safe and reliable flow of hydrocarbons from the subsea wellhead to the surface. In addition, the sub-segment designs and manufactures onshore and offshore drilling and production systems and equipment for floating production platforms; and provides a range of services related to onshore and offshore drilling activities.

Measurement and Controls – The company provides equipment and services for a range of industries, including oil and gas, power generation, aerospace, metals, and transportation. The offerings include sensor-based measurement; non-destructive testing and inspection; turbine, generator and plant controls and condition monitoring, as well as pipeline integrity solutions.

Surface – The company provides products and services for onshore oil and gas wells; and manufactures artificial lift equipment for extracting crude oil and other fluids from wells. Specific products include downhole tools for well integrity, dry trees and surface wellheads, electric submersible pumps, surface wellheads, wireline logging, artificial lift technologies, and drilling pressure control equipment.

Downstream Technology Solutions – The company provides products and services to serve the downstream segments of the industry, including refining, petrochemical, distributed gas, flow and process control, and other industrial applications. Products include steam turbines, reciprocating and centrifugal compressors, pumps, valves, and compressed natural gas and small-scale LNG solutions used primarily for shale oil and gas field development.

Aviation

This segment designs and produces commercial and military aircraft engines, integrated digital components, electric power and mechanical aircraft systems. The company also provides aftermarket services to support its products.

Commercial Engines – The company manufactures jet engines and turboprops for commercial airframes. Its commercial engines power aircraft in all categories; regional, narrowbody and widebody. It also manufactures engines and components for business and general aviation segments.

Commercial Services – The company provides maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts.

Military – The company manufactures jet engines for military airframes. Its military engines power various military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications. The company provides MRO, including sales of replacement parts.

Systems – The company provides components, systems and services for commercial and military segments. This includes avionics systems, aviation electric power systems, flight efficiency and intelligent operation services, aircraft structures and Avio Aero.

Additive – The company provides machines for metal additive manufacturing for industry and comprises its existing technologies, as well as two acquisitions, enabling the design and manufacture of complex parts and leverage of technology for improved cost and performance.

The company also produces and markets engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in a joint venture with Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.

Regulation

The company’s product, services and activities are subject to various regulators, such as by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, European Aviation Safety Agency, and other regulatory bodies.

Healthcare

This segment provides healthcare technologies to developed and emerging markets and has expertise in medical imaging, digital solutions, patient monitoring and diagnostics, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies and performance improvement solutions. Products and services are sold worldwide primarily to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market.

Healthcare Systems – The company provides a range of technologies and services that include diagnostic imaging and clinical systems. Diagnostic imaging systems, such as X-ray, digital mammography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance, surgical and interventional imaging, and molecular imaging technologies allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly. Clinical systems, such as ultrasound, electrocardiography, bone densitometry, patient monitoring, incubators and infant warmers, respiratory care, and anesthesia management that enable clinicians to provide better care for patients every day - from wellness screening to advanced diagnostics to life-saving treatment. Healthcare systems also offers product services that include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by the company and by others.

Life Sciences – The company delivers products, services and manufacturing solutions for drug discovery, the biopharmaceutical industry and cellular technologies, so scientists and specialists discover ways to predict, diagnose and treat disease. It also researches, manufactures and markets imaging agents used during medical scanning procedures to highlight organs, tissue and functions inside the human body, to aid physicians in the early detection, diagnosis and management of disease through advanced in-vivo diagnostics.

Healthcare Digital – The company provides medical technologies, software, analytics, cloud solutions, implementation and services to drive increased access, improved quality and affordable healthcare worldwide. By combining digital and industrial, software and hardware, Healthcare Digital delivers integrated digital solutions that improve outcomes.

Regulation

The company’s products are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as well as various laws and regulations that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.

Transportation

This segment is a supplier to the railroad, mining, marine, stationary power and drilling industries worldwide.

Locomotives – The company provides freight and passenger locomotives, as well as rail services to help solve rail challenges. It manufactures high-horsepower, diesel-electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Tier 4 requirements for freight and passenger applications.

Services – The company develops partnerships that support advisory services, parts, integrated software solutions and data analytics. Its offerings include tailored service programs, parts for the company and other locomotive platforms, overhaul, repair and upgrade services, and wreck repair. Its portfolio provides the people, partnerships and leading software to optimize operations and asset utilization.

Digital Solutions – The company offers a suite of software-enabled solutions to help its customers lower operational costs, increase productivity and improve service quality and reliability.

Mining – The company provides mining equipment and services. The portfolio includes drive systems for off-highway vehicles, mining equipment, mining power and productivity.

Marine, Stationary & Drilling – The company offers marine diesel engines and stationary power diesel engines and motors for land and offshore drilling rigs.

Energy Connections & Lighting

This segment includes GE Energy Connections, which designs and deploys technologies that transport, convert, automate and optimize energy to ensure efficient electrical power. The company connects machines, grids, and systems to power utility, oil and gas, marine, mining and renewables customers.

This segment includes the GE Lighting business, which is primarily focused on consumer lighting applications in the U.S.; and Current, powered by GE (Current), which is focused on providing energy efficiency and productivity solutions for commercial and industrial customers.

Industrial Solutions – The company provides high performance software and control solutions; and offers products, such as circuit breakers, relays, arresters, switchgear, panel boards and repair for the commercial, data center, healthcare, mining, renewable energy, oil and gas, water and telecommunication markets.

Grid Solutions – The company’s Grid Solutions, a company’s and Alstom joint venture, offers products and services, such as high voltage equipment, power electronics, automation and protection equipment, and software solutions, in addition to its projects and services capabilities modernize the grid. The company serves industries, such as generation, transmission, distribution, oil and gas, telecommunication, mining and water; and its strategic partnership ventures, primarily in Mexico and China, allow it to support its customers through various product and service offerings.

Power Conversion – The company’s product portfolio includes motors, generators, automation and control equipment and drives for energy intensive industries, such as marine, oil and gas, renewable energy, mining, rail, metals, test systems and water.

Automation & Controls – In partnership with GE Digital, the Global Research Center, and company’s businesses worldwide, it focuses on control solutions – helping customers become productive and efficient.

GE Lighting – The business offers light emitting diodes (LEDs) in various shapes, sizes, wattages and color temperatures. It also investing in the smart home category, building a suite of connected lighting products with connection points that offer opportunities to do more at home.

Current – The company delivers energy efficiency and productivity solutions for commercial and industrial customers. It combines infrastructure technology, such as LED and solar with sensor-enabled data networks and Predix-based digital applications to help its customers reduce energy costs, better predict spend and gain business productivity insights. The company partners with various digital companies to help expand its application catalog, and it offers flexible financing solutions that help its customers achieve faster payback periods and better long-term value.

Capital

This segment is the financial services division of the company focused on customers and markets aligned with its industrial businesses, whether in developed economies or emerging markets. The company provides financial products and services worldwide that are geared to utilize its industry specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, and healthcare to capitalize on market-specific opportunities. In addition, it continues to operate its run-off insurance activities as part of its continuing operations.

Industrial Finance (IF) – IF provides equipment financing solutions worldwide for the GE industrial businesses. In addition, its Working Capital Solutions business provides critical working capital services to the company to help optimize cash management.

Energy Financial Services (EFS) – EFS is an energy investor that provides financial solutions and underwriting capabilities for power, renewable energy, and oil and gas to meet demand and sustainability imperatives worldwide. EFS invests in long-lived, capital intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance.

GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) – GECAS offers commercial aircraft leasing, financing, services, and consulting with the range of business solutions.

Intellectual Property

GE is a trademark and service mark of the company.

Significant Events

In May 2017, the company announced it was awarded a contract with Toshiba Plant System & Services Corporation to supply major equipment for the CEL II 135 MW Coal Fired Power Plant in Stung Hav, Sihanoukville. Under the contract with TPSC, the company would supply the Integrated Power Package, which include the boiler, electrostatic precipitator and steam turbine generation systems.

In May 2017, General Electric (GE) signed a SAR 1 billion joint venture agreement on May 24, 2017 with Dussur industrial development company to manufacture gas turbines in the eastern city of Dammam.

History

General Electric Company was founded in 1892. The company was incorporated in 1892.